[MUSIC]
>> Kyle Simpson: So
I think you ought to make explicit blocks,
not use implicit blocks.
That's my own personal take on that.
By the way let declarations can
obviously declare more than one so
you could say y = x * 3 or
whatever you want to do.
Okay so that's the let keyword.
In addition to the var keyword.
Any more questions on let
before we move on to const?
Const is a another block scoping
operator that was added to the language.
So in this particular case you could use
it in the place where you had a let.
It's a block scoping declarator.
So it's kinda like a cousin
to let in that sense.
But what const does is something
a little bit different.
And it's probably something a little
bit different than what you might
normally assume so
let me just ask for a moment.
What do you all think const
x = 2 is actually creating?
Anyone?
>> Speaker 2: Keeps you
from reassigning x to something new.
>> Kyle Simpson: Okay, good answer.
Anybody else have a different answer?
>> Speaker 3: I think just conceptually or
under the covers, what is it?
>> Kyle Simpson: You tell me.
>> Speaker 3: I would assume it's making
a getter that has no say.
>> Kyle Simpson: I'm not necessarily
talking about implementations.
I guess what I'm really asking is
what's the behavior in our code,
what are we creating?
>> Speaker 3: Mutable value that if you
signed again-
>> Kyle Simpson: So
some people say mutable values, okay.
So we've heard can't be reassigned.
We've heard immutable values.
Anybody else have
a different explanation for
when you tell somebody about the const
keyword, what are you usually saying?
You're usually telling
somebody I'm creating a what?
>> Speaker 4: A constant.
>> Kyle Simpson: A constant, so what is
a constant?
>> Speaker 5: Value doesn't
change.
>> Kyle Simpson: A value
that doesn't change.
That's how a lot of
people describe it okay?
Only one of the answers that
I've heard is actually accurate.
All the other ones are well
meaning in spirit but
off banks in terms of
what's really going on.
So specifically, a constant is
a variable that cannot be reassigned and
has nothing to do with the value.
>> Kyle Simpson: But the problem
is that word constant is always associated
in our developer minds with the value.
So when people hear the word constant,
what they think is it's a value
that doesn't change,
it's a value that's immutable.
That's what almost everybody says
when you ask them that question,
what is a constant?
We almost always get that.
But really what it is,
as this gentleman said really what it is,
is that a constant is a variable
that can't be reassigned.
So this confusion that I'm talking
about is not new to JavaScript.
The const keyword has been introduced
in a whole bunch other languages before
JavaScript and
as Stack Overflow can prove to us,
it's confused developers in every
one of those communities as well.
So much so that some languages
actually had to add another keyword.
Like Java added the final keyword to
try to talk about value semantics.
Because everybody kept thinking that const
had to do with the value and it didn't.
So they added final to say this
value doesn't change anymore.
Const is about assignment.
So put it all simply,
if I say something like const x = 3,
it is true that 3 is an immutable value
but has nothing to do with const.
Because 3 is also an immutable value here,
okay?
What's different about this program
is that x can't be reassigned, okay?
To point that out even more specifically,
if y is some array with values in it,
y cannot be reassigned.
If I say y = 2, that fails.
If I say y equals some other array,
that fails.
Great but y is most definitely not
pointing at an immutable value
because I can say y[0] = 42 and
it's gonna work all day long
because the value itself has nothing
to do with the const keyword.
It's just the assignment of it, okay?
So there are some people.
As a matter of fact, many people out
there that are telling developers,
what you should do is always
declare your variables with const.
And in certain cases, when it needs to
be reassignable, change those to lets,
and never use var.
So they const, let, never use var.
My advice is literally
the inverse of that.
var, use let where that's helpful.
Every once in a while, maybe use const.
Literally the inverse, okay?
Because there's a whole bunch of places
where the const keyword is going
to confuse readers of your code that are
not already familiar with the differences.
They're gonna be confused into thinking
this is a value that doesn't change.
For example,
some developer is gonna come along and
they're gonna see this piece of code and
then they're gonna see it pass in x.
And they're gonna think to themselves,
x doesn't change.
I know x is still on array one two three.
But is that the case?
It's not the case because we passed
in a reference to a mutable value and
through absolutely can do something stupid
like change the contents of that array and
a reader of your code might be confused
when they see the const keyword into not
realizing that.
So the const keyword has
the potential to lead people
down this path of being confused
about the value semantic.
And I'm not just saying that on my own,
I'm saying we've got three decades of
experience with other languages that
say sometimes developers get confused.
Is it learnable?
Yes.
Is it natural and
instinctive and intuitive?
Maybe not so much, okay?
So the const keyword has this potential
problem but what's its value benefit.
The value benefit supposedly is that
we're communicating which sounds exactly
like something that be right up my alley.
We are communicating when we write this
line of code on the first line of our
block, we are communicating that
x will never be reassigned, okay?
We'll get to that question
in just one moment,
just let me finish this
thought real quick.
We are communicating x
will never be reassigned.
But let me ask you a question.
Let's imagine that this is inside
of some blocks somewhere, okay?
And there's some other code in this block.
You've probably heard before,
people tell you, stylistically,
you should keep your functions in
your blocks really small, okay?
Most people tell you, if they're of that
opinion, they'll tell you your block
should never be more than maybe five
lines, six, seven lines of code, right?
They want you to keep things small.
There are people that say,
a whole function shouldn't
be more than five lines.
If it's more than five lines
you split it out, right?
We hear this all the time.
It's nonsense but
we hear it all the time, right?
So let's go really crazy.
And let's say that we wrote
a ten line block of code.
I mean I know that's just way
out there in an outer space.
But let's say we wrote a ten line block,
and on the first line we said const
x = and we're supposedly
communicating to other developers.
x is not gonna be reassigned.
But let me ask you a question.
Let's say that that block
is within the program.
We've got a million lines of code.
How many lines of that code can
affect the assignment of x?
>> Kyle Simpson: Is it a million?
There's only nine other lines in that
entire million line program that
can actually change the assignment
of x because it's block scoped.
Even if we pass x somewhere.
The code inside of foo cannot
affect the assignment of x.
Can affect the value,
can't affect the assignment.
So let me just summarize it this way,
and then I'll get to the question.
The const keyword is saying,
I'm not going to reassign this variable
in the next few lines of code.
I prefer to communicate that by just
simply not reassigning it in the next
few lines of code.
Because the const keyword, because of
all the confusion potential doesn't
actually help me with that communication.
I just don't reassign it and then I've
communicated I'm not gonna reassign it.
But there's another problem here, which
is that whole thing that values can go
other places and get mutated,
that's a big deal.
Const doesn't help us with that.
If you wanted to make sure that
somebody couldn't change it,
you don't need the const keyword,
what you need is object.freeze
That's been built in since ES5.
That's not even an ES6 thing.
Breaking news, seven years ago we got
this utility called object.freeze.
It makes that object at the shallow top
level, it's a shallow freeze it makes it
read only properties so
in effect it is an immutable value, okay?
Not a real immutable value
in terms of performance but
poor man's immutable value.
So if I wanted to communicate to some
developer that x is not gonna be changed
by foo, I could just as
easily do that with var x and
I would say have less confusion potential
with them if I use the const keyword.
By saying object.phrase.